check one two three how y'all doing guys
i got a question from the audience in
theory
you could have already read this in the
description of this video as i took a
moment to copy and paste it
and the question basically was pushing
me on
a subtle distinct distinction that i
allowed to be implicit
in my earlier video talking about the
nature of intelligence and the politics
of what we do with iq tests
other measures of uh both accomplishment
and so-called
intelligence now let's i think i have to
actually close the window
we have a dog barking nearby
um
so the question i got from the audience
that you can see in the description
according to here verbatim was
what do i mean what do i have in mind
when i
contrast so-called meaningful measures
of intelligence
to oh james newman comments this is some
late broadcasting
it depends what time zone you're in i am
a little bit interested in that question
i generally do broadcast earlier in the
day
because i think a large percentage of my
audience is in europe i think i have
more viewers in europe than i have in
maybe canada the united states combined
um but you know i do have some
i do have some viewing members of the
audience in new zealand and australia so
on and so forth so sometimes i always
just try to mix it up
and see what see who shows up and by the
way guys if you hit the thumbs up button
it helps other people
discover the broadcast and join us i'm
on the west coast time zone so it's not
too late for me the sun is still shining
here
in the middle of our june heat wave
which is another reason to broadcast
later in the day all right so return to
the top of this video here
but guys as you can see if you want to
comment all right
so lydia comments that she scored very
high all right so let's let's start with
some androids here
so lydia do you want to tell us a little
bit about how you wrote the iq test
and under what conditions because what
people's motivations are for writing
these tests is also a very interesting
thing
why would you write the iq test was it
to get a job was it to get into the
military you know so on and so forth
okay so the quote oh it was a joke
unfortunately so you haven't
not that many people rated an iq test
why would you under what circumstances
would someone write
all right i guess i'll start this way
look guys um when we think about
intelligence most of us are talking
about completely subjective
measures of intelligence that really
have to do with how much sympathy we
have for another person or how much
common ground
we have for them i have had some
pakistani
taxi drivers who say racist things
while they're driving the taxi they may
say racist things
they may say homophobic things they may
say things from a conservative muslim
perspective
that are shocking to me but at my
advanced
age in life i can appreciate that the
extent to which i sympathize with
someone politically
the amount i have in common with them
has absolutely nothing to do
with how intelligent or unintelligent
they are now this same
taxi driver perhaps if the test of our
intelligence
is to uh you know drive a car through an
obstacle course
there's a there's a test of intelligence
set up that requires us to do a number
of things let's just say
it's not it's not just driving let's say
we also have to memorize a map
and move between a series of points on
the map in an intelligent sophisticated
way and makes strategic decisions
you know these are skills he's built up
over many years driving a taxi
if i go and drive through this same
obstacle course with him what do you
know
he seems tremendously competent he seems
tremendously capable
he may certainly seem much more
intelligent than i am
this is his this is his forte this is
her expertise now the particular taxi
driver
it may be that my five-minute
conversation with him
i i happen to be talking to him about
his area of greatest weakness like he
happens to be racist he happens to be
homophobic
he's not terribly uh anyway he's not
he's not uh
on the ball about 21st century politics
from my bias perspective at least
but you know what if he took the time
and got to know him you might learn more
about his life
maybe he started off as a farmer he
knows a lot about farming
and then he went to school to become a
pilot and he became a pilot in pakistan
but he decided he really wasn't
satisfied with social and political
conditions in pakistan maybe he can say
some very intelligent things to you
about
politics in pakistan and politics in
india i'm thinking of particular
taxi drivers i've had i've had some
interesting conversations with taxi
drivers about
the politics they were escaping from and
he decided you know what he's better off
driving a taxi in canada than flying an
airplane in pakistan maybe he can tell
you some really compelling things with
us
and now you start to gain an
appreciation for the man and maybe now
if you've developed the friendship a bit
maybe you start to challenge him on his
racist homophobic statements and you
learn a little bit more about
why he says these things or how it
really feels oh
so now we have a whole relationship with
someone and we have some kind of
appreciation for their intelligence
in real life when there are no tests
involved when there aren't numbers being
assigned to people
to quantify or measure their
intelligence this is what intelligence
is for us
intelligence is for the most part and
index just of how much common ground
how much fellow feeling we have with
someone it's very 18th century
uh turnip phrase fellow feeling
stepping beyond this when you're talking
about meaningful measures of
intelligence
we have to disaggregate them into three
very different strata
first thumbs up for the video so here's
one day i shout out to you guys you're
skeptical as an audience
you've been listening for this long five
minutes anything
maybe the thumbs up maybe sorry i don't
care
i gotta say what i have to say either
way shout out to freda shout out to
james
shout out to wow the guy's name as well
it looks like every comment is beginning
with the word wow but no it's just
someone who's name as well
shout out to tristan nice to see y'all
here
um some he's messing he's saying that he
recognizes that phrase fellow
feeling from uh from the translation of
max sterner into
into english yeah that has to do with a
translator
um i've been reading a lot from the
period of the
american revolution and the 10 years
leading up to the writing the
constitution that states america
so i don't think i honestly do not think
it has influenced my writing
style or my speaking style but i've been
seeing a lot of the peculiar
turns of phrase that were used in that
epoch in that era by
erudite gentlemen who consider
themselves in a position to rule the
world
frankly the yeah the megalomania
of the uh authors of the constitution
that would be a great book unto itself
so i um yeah i got i got i got to start
throwing up my ideas for ma theses and
phd thesis here on live stream there's a
lot of stuff that tempts me to work more
and to work on to work on the chinese
perception of the american revolution in
american constitution and the chinese
perception
of the french revolution and the way in
which these revolutions are intertwined
with each other
um you know pardon me anyway i'm i'm
tempted to devote 10 years of my life to
several different areas of study
just now when working with uh history
the american revolution running a
constitution
okay so i said that if we want to get
serious
about meaningful measures of
intelligence first of all we have to
disaggregate them into three very
different strata
so i was asking lydia before what were
your reasons for writing
an intelligence test now one reason
in canada for writing an intelligence
test or having a specialist
conduct an intelligence test is to
establish
whether or not you are so mentally
disabled
that the government will never expect
you to have a job
never expect you to attend school
and will provide for you paid benefits
for the rest of your life
this is very real now i think in many
countries with a sort of generous
social system uh there are these kinds
of tests so that's this is an
intelligence test
but this is an intelligence test to
establish whether you are employable
whether you are capable of attending
primary school like grade one two three
four five like a normal school for
normal children or not
this is a very serious very important
form of intelligence test
now i i was generalizing but to say
canada in canada
it's divided into several provinces so
it will be different in quebec different
in ontario
but we don't have a single national
standard for these things but i had a
friend
and his sister was objectively mentally
due to a health condition her mother had
during pregnancy
so it was an impaired pregnancy or
wherever you want to put it due to the
mother's illness during pregnancy it's
definite that the
daughter had severely reduced mental
capacity
uh but perhaps she would have been a
genius if her mother didn't have this
health problem during pregnancy
because she was given all of these tests
at many stages of her youth and then as
a teenager
and she never qualified as mentally
disabled
she never qualified as she
simply qualified as
a very very stupid normal person
now you can imagine for the whole family
this was in part a triumph but in part a
tragedy
like the parents both of the parents
were school teachers
incidentally they were quite proud that
they'd given their mentally disabled
daughter enough education and enough
encouragement
that she qualified as not mentally
that she was over the line into
being
a normal person but of course they had
also
in effect swindled her out of a lifetime
of benefits she now had to enter the
workforce and find a job and go to
school and compete with other people and
so on
and she wouldn't get any of the help she
would have gotten you know she would
have been sent to special education and
so on she would have been given
special education special benefits if
she had scored a little bit lower
on these iq tests now i've spoken about
this many times
i can't put enough emphasis on this
first point
that if you're going to talk seriously
about meaningful measures of
intelligence
we have to disaggregate the low end
of the scale when we're calibrating
tests and we're testing people for these
kinds of reasons
to establish for example mental
competence to be a witness
in a court of law sometimes mentally
people
are witnesses to a crime and by the way
each country handles this very
differently
if you think the standard is the same in
japan as it is in louisiana or something
and you know some people they are
mentally disabled and they're capable of
witnessing something and telling you it
wasn't there
but maybe they are so simple-minded that
a lawyer can bully them
into saying something else like they'll
respond to that kind of coercion
can this person really give a deposition
in court is there eye witness
is their eyewitness testimony legally
valid so there
are intelligence tests to establish
these things is someone intelligent
enough to drive a car
should they be regarded as two mental
disabled driver car and just recently
i've already talked about this i read a
book
a dedicated book on the use of
intelligence tests in the vietnam war
is someone intelligent enough to do
military service to hold a gun
to participate in warfare are they too
mentally disabled um
to take up such responsibilities these
are very very serious questions
and this is these can be certainly
meaningful
intelligence tests and
i don't think it's out of incompetence
that right-wing demagogues misrepresent
what intelligence tests are and what
their political significance is
in this way i don't think it's possible
for someone to
misrepresent whether it's the use of the
iq test or the raven squares test or any
of these other things
uh or indeed even the military aptitude
test or the sat test you know the
university admissions test and this kind
of thing to misrepresent
data that comes from evaluating the low
end from evaluating capacity and
and disability and you to misrepresent
that as if it tells you something about
the high end
um how many people you have who are
capable of being
great poets or great painters it's so
ridiculous this is what i'm gonna get to
that later you know what is our
concept of greatness or genius or
advanced intelligence
uh or i mean you guys already know i've
i've just been questioning i've just
been mocking the extent of which we
assume that someone who works
on the stock market as a stock broker
represents a
very high level of intelligence but the
extent to which we can we can look at
this kind of data that's developed from
these types of measurements calibrated
in this way
as something meaningful about the
average the second segment or the people
at the
at the extreme high end and then again
part of what i'm questioning here is
what do we mean by the high end right
now there's another kind of gap here and
that is the gap between
objective measurements and subjective
measurements
as i said before subject measurements
have a lot to do with fellow feeling
with compassion with sympathy with
common ground even just with political
and
ideological agreement um there was a
time
when the president united states was
george w bush
and i often had to explain to people
that
i'm i don't say that he's stupid
because i disagree with him or because i
think he's wrong about some policy
choice
i really genuinely think george w bush
is stupid
it's quite a separate matter like
evaluating his intelligence
obviously the vast majority of people
who condemn george w bush
or donald trump or um back in the day
bill clinton a lot of people thought
bill clinton was a tremendously stupid
man
they are really saying that they morally
condemn him that they disagree with him
that they don't support the same quality
choices that they don't have this kind
of
common ground so to say
if you step into the taxi and your taxi
driver
makes a series of racist remarks
homophobic
remarks and let's say politically
provocative remarks
let's say your your taxi driver is a
donald trump supporter
who says some very shocking things to
you while he's driving the taxi
and let's say you get upset and say well
you know you must be a tremendously
stupid man
and the tax driver turns around and
holds up his iq test for you
you know i mean he scored some he's in
the top one percent
of scores he says oh you think i'm
stupid well i can prove it i can prove
it my intelligence you know and of
course mensa and these other
institutes exist this reason how how
would you
respond to that how would any of us
respond to that there's this strange
sense in which
uh everyone who cares about this issue
or everyone who pretends
to care about this issue struggles with
the gap between the significance of
these
subjective measures of intelligence
which is what we tend to really care
about
and objective measures of intelligence
however yes
ultimately and especially at the low end
um there are there's tremendous
importance to having objectively real
measures okay so i'm just going to read
some uh uh questions behind us and i'll
continue here
so frida says that the country she's
living in there are people who pretend
they have some kind of baby syndrome
to get government pensions so yeah
meaning that they pretend
that their their child is disabled when
it is not
yep um you know anyways
um well it gets darker than that there
are also people who actually injure
their own children who actually disable
their own children and i've read
accounts of that too
if you're serious about political
science that's exactly the sort of thing
you're supposed to study in political
science
and it's no surprise that there's
incredibly little uh research of that
kind that goes on
in departments of political science uh
ronald says so ronald's been a long time
viewer and support the channel ronald
sims i think
i think i've seen you here for five or
seven years man anyway shout out to
ronald
we're broadcasting a good time for him
and he says he was tested as a kid
uh because of autism during his youth so
ron that's an interesting
question so if you tested positively for
autism during your youth
did you later test negative is that you
felt those tests were
inaccurate or or do you feel they were
accurate but you've been able to cope
sorry i'm asking a sincere interest um
i will not digress well i could i could
digress and do this later if people are
interested
but you know we certainly have a
phenomenon now with over
diagnosis of autism in the same way that
we have over diagnosis
of adhd attention deficit a hyper
deficit
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
um you know and i i it's not that i
presume that it's not a real problem i
think that autism is a real problem
and whatever name you're going to call
it under people certainly struggle with
inattentiveness and hyperactivity and we
have to make up a name for that
apparently
but the extent to which these things
become just patterns of behavior
leading to a diagnosis that changed
someone's life forever
without for example an mri scan without
a physically real verifiable set of
criteria um there is certainly now over
diagnosis
of autism and the only thing i'll say
again i related already the story of
my friend who had a mentally disabled
sister um
often the only help the family can get
is by achieving and
achieving a positive test result of that
that kind you know that if his sister
qualifies as mentally they're
going to get government help and if she
doesn't they're proud of her because she
studied hard and worked hard she passed
the test
but now you don't get any government
help so i mean likewise a diagnosis
even whether it's autism or attention
deficit disorder
or even if it's a completely false
diagnosis
that could be helpful to the family
because now they're getting forms of
support
otherwise they wouldn't get with
somebody some kid who had some problem
but it may not be autism it may not be
adhd
sat-12 comments that right-wing
demagogues seem to like the concept of
meritocracy
and that is because it is a very exotic
and foreign concept
yes meritocracy um
it's because it's something they've
never experienced and never seen in
their lives that's what makes it seem so
appealing
yeah so frida comments i mean this is a
simple comment but it's very true that
she has met a person that
she thinks is stupid but he plays the
guitar very well he has a great voice
and writes songs
maybe he is just dumb at everything else
you know
well exactly what if people who are
stock brokers what if people who make a
lot of money on the stock market
are dumb at everything else you know
this is
human nature writ large what can i tell
you
so someone else here commented that he
knew a security guard who was a member
of mensah
he said he didn't need a lot of money so
if you guys don't know what mensa is
m-e-n-s-a
it is basically a special club for
people who get very high scores on iq
tests
and they have their own intelligence
test which is normally called the mensa
test
um tell you a short story about that too
i i had a friend
and um people had always told him he was
some kind of a genius he was some kind
of
unusually intelligent guy he now has a
phd
and you know i knew him well he was in
some ways a talented
person and in some ways not so much
and he he applied to join mensa he had a
series of experiences that kind of led
up to this moment in his life where he
said okay he would
take the test to join try to join mensa
and um
it was something like after three weeks
they were supposed to send you the
results in the mail
and so he wrote the test and three weeks
later uh he hadn't gotten any results
and he waits and he waits and some
obviously i forget the precise nervous
like six weeks later he
he got in touch with them over the phone
he said hi you know i was wanting to get
lost in the mail you know whatever test
results
and the person on the phone said um yes
you see uh we have a policy
that we don't like to send the results
when the score is quite this low
because they're afraid that the person
would commit suicide
that they'd be so discouraged by getting
a low score yeah so if you gotta if he
was just a little bit below you know
um so anyway uh richie says that he knew
a security guard who was a member of med
said he said he didn't need a lot of
money
well okay let me let me ask you
something so again if we're talking
about the low end of the spectrum the
middle of the spectrum and the supposed
high end of the spectrum you can think
about what i did in the last year guys
i red appian red machiavelli
there's a lot of other books here off
camera oh i've got xenophon over here
um i've been reading a lot of meaningful
things i've been thinking about a lot of
people things i've been writing
i've been talking about meaningful
things what if i had spent the last
year just drilling the mensa test
again and again and again the word drill
is now very rarely used this way you
used to use that
all the time in english sorry if you
read stuff from the 1930s or 1950s
by drill like i mean we could i got an
open schedule
i could set an alarm wake up at 6 00 a.m
drink red bull cola or something drink
some highlights in the morning drink
and every morning at 7 a.m sit down and
write the mensa test
i could do it every day and for a year
i could practice every day doing that
kind of problem solving that kind of
written answer
does anyone here doubt that i could pass
the med desert
maybe even set a record i mean i i the
only reason to be honest
the only reason i think i would not set
a record is i think there were a whole
bunch of guys who already did that
i think they did that they practiced
every day for 10 years or whatever
just to try to get into the guinness
book of world records or something
if you actually practiced this
particular set of skills
that are reflected on the test now it's
been a while since i've looked at test
questions for mensa
but i remember this is an example that
stayed with me because it is so peculiar
and it described you know a man is
walking down the sidewalk with a pair of
flat loafers flat shoes on and he steps
on
a bug or a strawberry or something and
it's on the front left side of his shoe
and then when he he turns his shoe up to
look at it like what side will it be on
relatively it was one of these things
where you had to in your mind visualize
when the shoe got turned around and
sorry maybe i'm slightly misremembering
the question like maybe it's that he
stepped on
wet paint that was the letter r or
something and then
when he turns the shoe up why was it
gonna look so something like this we had
to visualize
how the image would get turned around in
your mind and then answer the question
for which way would be up and which way
would be down
so this would be very difficult for
someone with dyslexia sign now
you know what what are you testing here
are you testing my intelligence are you
testing my interest in
you know practicing this particular way
of thinking and
you know sorry i am self-critical i
haven't been studying chinese lately as
soon as i finish writing my book i'm
planning to return to studying chinese
in a big way the particular skills that
are involved in chinese i'm not call
kind of good or evil you know they're
not they're not one the other
but you know they have very little to do
with reality in the same way like okay
i'm going to practice writing the same
character again again i'm going to
remember how it sounds and wrote it
using a sentence
i have to ask my lovely assistant to
pass me something to drink i'm not used
to performing in this heat you want to
give me that do you want it okay all
right
if you if you were to make a trip to the
fridge you would be exposed on camera
your yeah okay all right we'll share
share a jar
so anyway guys um i i honestly i could
tell i anticipated
all day i think uh if you've been
watching my channel for a million years
like ron sims as you've heard me talk
about the intelligence chest used by the
canadian military
more recently i was reading about the
intelligence chess used by the american
military i read a whole book about that
but i took the intelligence test for the
canadian military myself when i signed
up to join the army and
a lot of the questions were getting at
dyslexia
a lot of them were about rotating things
and remembering
how things are oriented and which way is
up and which way is down
spatial puzzles geometric spatial
puzzles
and apparently i'm good at this or i'm
good enough at i've never practiced this
in my life
but you know you can recognize this like
if you wanted to set a record and get
the highest score anyone had ever gotten
on the canadian
intelligence test you could just
practice this you could just wake up
every day and practice doing these
stupid puzzles
and they have no applicability to real
life okay sorry
let's be clear sorry i shouldn't say
there is zero applicability to your life
this type of puzzle it eliminates two
types of people
one it eliminates people at that low end
that i opened the video talking about
it's so
important right like the military really
has to eliminate people who can't even
read the instructions that are on the
cartridge of ammunition where they can't
read things they can't
they're whether due to lack of education
or real mental disability they're not
at that level of confidence and again i
read a whole book dealing with what
happens when you have people in a
battlefield situation who are below that
level of mental confidence and it gets
it gets real scary
you know something like can you operate
a radio
while afraid for your life you know on a
battlefront where there are bullets have
been around you you know can you calmly
and with a focused mind
operator radio dell some people are too
you know mentally able to do this
um sorry
we had an off-camera sneeze delay
and now a word from our sponsor anyway
[Laughter]
um yeah
uh on the one hand the military is
testing
for this kind of low end fundamental
competency and then above and beyond
that i did some reading about the
canadian test and they had a lot of
problems with people with dyslexia and
people who
lacked this kind of spatial awareness
where when you handed them
a magazine of bullets to put into a
rifle or something they would put it in
upside down and backwards and they'd
stand there for
60 seconds trying to get it to go in so
there are some people apparently
and by the way that may not be dyslexia
it may be a different condition or
problem but there are some people who
will just never get it with the
orientation of object geometric objects
this way apparently
and that was a special problem that
encountered they started to design the
test to reflect that
so my point was initially i was
suggesting a lot of the things on these
tests
are really unrelated to competence and
intelligence in any meaningful way
however we should recognize the very
limited way in which they may reflect
some kind of intelligence or some kind
of confidence that we might indeed be uh
be testing for whether it's the military
or whatever
so ronald sims did reply ronald wrote
back saying those tests were positive
until he graduated high school
and then again when he graduated college
um
so the state he lives in has complicated
rules about the diagnosis of mental
illness
this is interesting here on i would be
interested here if if you
believed that the tests were correct or
incorrect in the first place i mean no
it's certainly uh
i've already indicated that i'm
open-minded about that but
um
it is certainly possible in the year
for someone to be diagnosed with autism
just because they're a jerk
or just because they were a jerk on the
particular day of the test even you know
it's because a lot of these are just
based on observable behavior
and they shouldn't be but you know i've
spoken to several people who thought
they had autism and as soon as i started
listing off the hard criteria
they were like oh well no i've never
done anything like that i've never felt
i was like well okay looks like you've
been reading articles in cosmopolitan
magazine or something you've been
reading magazine articles talking about
high-functioning autism and you've been
ignoring what the criteria really are
supposed to be
first option someone has that's the
condition anyway i i've already
indicated i have sympathy for people on
all sides of that i think people
struggle people struggle with diagnoses
and people struggle without them you
know so
uh but there are certainly a lot of
false pauses there i have not heard a
lot of complaints about false negatives
with the diagnosis for autism
okay i'm just reading through your
comments here guys
so anyway there's a lot of things here
guys so i'm not saying this to insult
you
but a lot of you haven't thought this
through enough i was fine that's why
you're here on youtube
listen to me um so you know sat12 says
creativity uses intelligence but is not
synonymous with it
okay what's what's creativity
you know um i already pointed out with
the example of pop music
that the rolling stones a white british
band
imitates black american music i mean
directly their early work
their first album their first several
singles 100 a knockoff of an imitation
of
what african-americans were already
doing and this is considered creative
this is creativity right now me i'm a
white
jewish person from toronto probably
if i as a fashion designer started
imitating
traditional japanese clothing this would
be perceived as creative
and someone from japan would say well
what do you mean he's just copying what
here is a well established
recognizable thing now maybe i'm wrong
maybe the fashion world
is is too too critical for me to get
ahead in this way maybe maybe this is an
interesting contrast
mainstream rock and roll and what it
takes to get ahead and be perceived as
creative in fashion
but you know the perception of
creativity
what we measure as what we refer to as
creativity well if imitation
can be perceived as creativity you know
what what isn't
what's not creativity so the idea that
we can calibrate any test
or even just an evaluation of someone's
character as to how creative they are
it's certainly a very difficult thing so
okay another another
great question um plant-based powered
asked
do you think vegan gains is intelligent
so this is a digression but it's not too
much about aggression
so i've known richard for years and
obviously we stopped talking after
he and his and or his wife decided they
hated my guts as i recall i think his
wife
hated me first and she was really
against me and
it took him about a year to catch up
with her or something but
i have known of richard and i've known
richard and i've interviewed richard and
so on
you know so today in 2021
of course richard's a stupid person
because he lives his life in a stupid
way
right now the question that's really
challenging and hard to deal with is
how intelligent could richard be today
if he had stopped making excuses for
himself
say seven years ago i think i think i
first got to know richard about seven
years ago now
um you know i don't want to simplify
this too much
but you know what if richard had stopped
playing video games he just reached a
point in his life seven years ago where
he said well this is something i did in
my childhood
but it's now meaningless it's holding me
back gonna stop playing video games
what if richard had stopped doing
bodybuilding and weightlifting he
thought well
this used to be a part of my life but
just told me back now there's a much
broader and deeper sense in which i can
ask what if you stop
making excuses um
you know he could have developed in many
different ways
one of his interests obviously had to do
with the health sciences
he could have gotten formal education in
the health sciences
even in food science or nutrition or
what have you you know there are many
different ways he could have developed
he
obviously someone who's always had an
interest in politics he could have
really become a very well-educated
person follow seven years so long time
um he could have developed himself many
ways that's what we don't know
and one of the reasons why okay you know
what it's not one reason
the reason the reason why i judge others
so harshly is precisely that i'm an
optimist in this way it's precisely that
i still believe in
their positive intellectual potential
now a
another example so we just talked about
richard vegan gains another example is
jaclyn glenn
uh so i i've i've probably known about
jackman for 10 years so i
think it's even longer than richard you
know she and i have never spoken
on like rich however we have
communicated with each other indirectly
she has made youtube videos responding
to me
i have made youtube videos but it is it
is quite clear that she knows my work
uh yeah um and i know her work also
you know of course today in 2021 it's
very easy to say jaclyn glenn is an
imbecile
she's an idiot you know why is she
stupid because she lives her life in a
stupid way
and after years it catches up with her
but to ask that question
where could she be today what was she
capable of intellectually
if 10 years ago she'd quit drinking quit
smoking marijuana
quit using drugs like ayahuasca quit
making excuses and really devoted
herself
um in any which way to developing
herself intellectually i mean i'm
i'm not presuming one narrow path you
know
she could have read appian for all i
care i may not whatever you know she
could have gone into
classical greek and latin than anything
and and sorry so let's be clear you know
when i talk about someone like
jacqueline glenn why do i have this
optimism
well i don't think she's in that she's
in that lower end of the spectrum where
you're evaluating someone to see whether
or not they can be competent to testify
in court
i mean she's someone who fundamentally
has all the working parts required
to be an intelligent person but she
didn't make any of the decisions
necessary to become
she didn't make any of the sacrifices
necessary
to become an intelligent person and
there are there are sacrifices it comes
at a price
i'm using up fluids over here but yeah i
hope you guys this is one of the great
things about about
live streaming and about making videos
is that i think you guys can feel my
sincerity and saying this stuff like i'm
not just
hating on her or insulting her or
something that it actually comes out of
a position of real
you know sympathy or empathy and i think
you know the reverse argument could be
true of me also
i wonder all the time what if i joined
the army when i was younger i mean if i
had joined the army at 18 years old like
maybe it would have
really arrested my intellectual
development i would have ended up being
an idiot for the rest of my life
you know really i i am not joking i
really wonder if i had made just
slightly different choices in my
education and my career how much
stupider i could have turned out now
as an old man you know and i'll never
know that either if
i'd continued drinking and womanizing
something
i basically only did when i was 16 years
old or 17 years old or so
you know my interest in that ran out
really quickly but you know
i believe me my father encouraged me my
father completely assumed that i was
going to remain a
you know alcohol drinking womanizer for
the rest of my life and plenty of his
other sons did you know
um but no i mean i i moved over i got
over and moved on but you know i could
be
i could be an idiot today if i if i
continue living that way
so you know i say it with that sympathy
and again i have to look at these other
people have known in my life
you know my own brothers my own sisters
and just my contemporaries people who
went through school with me i can see
how they've lived and i've seen to see
how they've turned out
and you know if they'd made different
choices just over five years
if you're really working hard you know
five years a long time and sir and again
let me just say
i say this to most all the time with
melissa i know i'm talking about four
years rather than five years
but i say all the time look i've learned
so much in the last four years
i'm really aware of it like you know my
sophistication my level of education my
level of understanding
i learned a lot just in the last four
years i didn't stop learning you know
when i finished high school or
university or something
so that goes both ways i'm also aware of
how much more ignorant i was
four years ago eight years ago 12 years
you know so
yeah i'm sorry i realize this is a long
answer to a short
question but that really is that really
is my sincere answer when we're talking
about people who are in the middle range
people who aren't dealing with
fundamental disabilities that impair
their ability to read
you know their ability to even sit in a
chair i've known people with
uh nervous system conditions you know
where they you know they have seizures
and jumping and they can't sit and read
for that reason
you can have all kinds of disabilities
that really limit you know how well you
can develop yourself and so on
but um when we're talking about the
middle range sure i'm i'm fundamentally
incredibly optimistic about
what people like vegan gains could have
done with their minds what people like
jacqueline glenn
could have done with their minds and
that's part of why i judge them so
harshly for having squandered
uh tremendous opportunities
opportunities that many of you in the
audience
you know don't have and will never have
i mean i know just just poverty
just poverty and being busy all the time
you know um
i'll i'll just say this okay examples
were held up to me
as a young man of people who were poor
and busy and hard-working
and who nevertheless hit the books and
developed and cultivated themselves
intellectually and lived that meaningful
life
and i think my parents didn't realize
how this would backfire
because i just completely bought into it
i was like well of course i was like
well of course so you can work
on a construction site and read you know
you can read appian
on the bus on the way to the demolition
shop you know of course it can't
and you know it's true of me i'm that
kind of guy you know i mean
i know it's incredibly rare and you know
i was given these other examples kind of
of uh i i won't say who it was there's a
particularly there was a virtuous
uh oh god was a virtuous waitress
in an old-fashioned diner and she
educated herself i think she got a
master's degree
while waiting tables i don't think she
got a phd which got a master's degree
and you know
she didn't remain devoted to life the
mind while doing this kind of you know
unglamorous uh not in intrinsically
intellectual work
and you know of course you know you're
not stressed out by that kind of job
you're not running of course you can do
the right
and you know my parents were completely
horrified when you know
during my own university education i was
talking about this as my own future that
i was gonna i was gonna finish
you know my university degree and i
applied for a job working on a
demolition crew
uh in in construction this is the work i
was applying for i applied
i formally applied to become a
bricklayer so that that it's a little
more complicated you don't apply for the
job
you apply to get into a kind of training
program which is linked to a
construction site
you do the training and within like
three days you're doing the job
it's not like going to university you
get like three days you know kind of
unpaid work and then you're then your
own thing
that was the stuff i was applying for
and i talked about becoming a postal
worker and things and my parents were
completely horrified you know they had
i could say they had to admit to
themselves but nobody has to diminish
themselves but i mean i think on some
level they weren't comfortable with the
extent to which they assumed that would
pursue a
life of bourgeois success and bourgeois
education
and that i wouldn't take seriously that
no that type of accomplishment is really
meaningless
and you know they'd proven it to me and
i'd seen it all around me in the site i
knew how worthless
master's degrees and phds were i really
knew how worthless the university system
was i was like well
this is what awaits me as a life whether
as a you know
whether as a bricklayer or as a yeah the
other one you guys probably know this
one was becoming a um
an emt an emergency medical technician
which basically means you work in an
ambulance
you know and my parents were horrified
they totally opposed this
they they actually intervened to prevent
me
from getting any of these jobs they
really freaked out
and if my father were alive i i don't
know i guess he'd deny it or something
i should be interested to see how he
reacted being confronted with this but
um they were incredibly i mean they they
were not at peace with themselves and
dealing with that i just say they were
really in this very strange kind of
cognitive dissonance situation
where it's like they taught me all this
stuff kind of glorifying the humble life
of the proletariat
if you don't know the word proletariat
don't look it up
it's a it's a communist catchphrase but
you know being a working class
poor honest person who doesn't care
about getting a master's degree and a
phd
but who cares about being a real
intellectual and that ideally being a
real revolutionary too or not being a
real
political dissident and for me i i just
i took that on sincerely that they never
had
and they were shocked when i was talking
about getting a job on a democrat
also you know i like to like to work out
i like to exercise but those days not
a gym i was i was not into going to
formal gyms
i'd do uh push-ups and chin-ups and
things but i did i wouldn't go to a gym
i thought well this is great i can build
up my physical strength
you know doing uh doing a job that's not
mentally exhausting what's physically
exhausting and then i can
do all this other stuff anyway sorry
again a long answer to uh
to a simple question but what can i tell
you it's uh i thought this is this is
worth
worth speaking on all right
so yeah there's there's a quotation here
sorry i'm quoting it's a question here
um sat 12 says nobody says mick j jagger
or keith richards are particularly
intelligent
like stephen hawking or einstein right
this is true but you see how easy it is
for musicians to present themselves
as slightly mysterious and then
ineffably brilliant
right for me so there are also
innumerable musicians who
really just by uh remaining silent at
interviews
through long and meaningful pauses i
think bob dylan himself is an example of
that
where people create this intellectual
mystique around bob dylan even though
there's no reason to think
he's intelligent anyway whatsoever um
including his views on religion by the
way
um continuing to read your questions
here
oh okay um
all right so intelligence tests and the
politicization of the concept of
quantifiable intelligence the first and
most fundamental thing is to talk about
how intelligence
tests are quantified at the low end of
the spectrum
well point zero was to draw our
attention to the gap
between subjective and objective
measures of intelligence
and for the most part subjectively when
we think someone's intelligent it's just
because they have a lot in common with
us
if somebody states the same political
beliefs you happen to hold
you're inclined to regard them as
intelligent if you meet someone
who sincerely supports donald trump
someone who sincerely supports
george w bush your first assumption will
probably be that they are stupid
if you oppose these people politically
it might take quite
a lot of evidence to convince you that
instead
they are brilliant but evil
think about how difficult it would be to
convince you today or if you got a time
machine and went back to the period of
george w bush
how difficult would it be for me to
convince you that
the protesters sir was it january 9th
got the date wrong january 6th um
january 6 2021 the protesters who were
supporting donald trump
that these people were not stupid that
they were not naive that they were not
manipulated by rumors on the internet et
cetera
but in fact like particular people in
this crowd and particular artists that
in fact they were brilliant
brilliant but evil brilliant but bad
intentions it's very difficult for us to
know maybe we can present some evidence
maybe one of those people can turn
around and show you their iq
score show you their mensa membership i
doubt it but you know my point is we
have this very very powerful inclination
to evaluate people's intelligence really
just in terms of how much they have in
common with us and when they don't have
things that come with us
ethically morally politically even
aesthetically
even style of clothing people are
dressed in a way you find funny
and don't sympathize with we will judge
them to be
stupid and it will take quite a lot to
to convince you that they are
intelligent or brilliant but they have
their own strong reasons for why they
disagree with you and they think that
those reasons may be idiosyncratic they
may be eccentric or they may actually be
evil another interesting digression here
plant-based shall i read your full name
plant-based power
asks do you think jfk was intelligent
so i'll just say this about that um when
you're judging the intelligence of
historical figures uh whether it be jfk
or say napoleon it's very important to
consider the man's whole life
and i think you know i was tempted to
digress and at this point in my earlier
video
where i made the comparison between bob
dylan and someone who's become a
multi-millionaire on the stock market
doing um what was a hedge fund
management
you know okay the fact that someone is a
hedge fund manager and that they've made
correct decisions
in managing the hedge fund and have been
paid very handsomely for this okay that
tells you something about them
but if you actually get to know this guy
if you listen to him for just 30 minutes
talk about his life
perhaps he's going to tell you about i
gave examples
um his first marriage and why his first
wife divorced him after he cheated on
her sleeping with a stripper
uh perhaps you know he has a history of
having a cocaine habit
perhaps he's made a long series of
really bad choices in his life and when
he tells you about them you start to
reflect
perhaps this person is not so
intelligent now this comes back to what
i said earlier
um you know perhaps
your reason for judging him as being
stupid now is simply that he doesn't
have very much in common with you
perhaps if you had more of those
experiences yourself you'd be inclined
to appreciate it more perhaps if you
also
had slept with a stripper and had your
wife leave you for that reason you might
sympathize more with you know really
i'm joking but i'm i'm entirely serious
to what extent is this just falling back
in the same kind of
uh subjective judgment in this same way
um if you're going to evaluate the
intelligence of jfk
or napoleon or any other historical
figure like this you have to
kind of behold the man uh all in all
you know um you can't just look at his
accomplishments you can't just look at
you know what he did in the stock market
and you know i do think
that napoleon's sex life tells you a lot
about who he really was as a man
you know everything you can also read
about napoleon's relationship with his
mother
and napoleon's relationship with his
brothers and the points of relationship
with his kids i mean
we know a lot about every aspect of that
guy's life
um napoleon's relationship with black
people
let's put it that way i think you know
yes it would take a kind of
brilliant free thinking man to live in
that culture at that time
and really conclude that racism against
black people was
bad and evil and wrong but guess what
there were
men around like that there were guys
like condorcet who were alive who
figured out that enslaving black people
was bad and evil and wrong and that
black people were fundamentally equal it
didn't it didn't take a genius
um you know another one of course is for
example anti-semitism you know
who figured out and who didn't the
extent to which anti-semitism is
in that culture
you know even if there's even if there's
a kind of intelligence test there that's
a good way to put it
you know it would have been an
intelligence test for napoleon
to you know overcome the prejudice
against black people in a society
but other people in that society were
intelligent enough to overcome that
prejudice
you know the same way if you know
someone uh in a predominantly muslim
predominantly anti-semitic society where
they're raised surrounded by
anti-semitic masters like on television
from news broadcasters all the time and
from their own family
nevertheless some of those people are
going to be intelligent enough to
overcome those things
anyway sorry i'm digressing to
illustrate but my point is
you know if you want to know how
intelligent someone like jfk was or
someone like napoleon was
you look at the person's whole life and
in both cases frankly jfk and napoleon
i think you come to some pretty dismal
conclusions um
one one final note on that too though
also with
hedge fund managers um how much
of their accomplishments in life are
truly their own
accomplishments with
modern painters in the 21st century
there was a scandal a while back
because it was revealed that a certain
modern artist most of his painting
wasn't done by him
he employed painters to paint the things
he was asking them to paint
um and you know he responded this
controversy by completely dismissing it
as an
old-fashioned concern you know he said
no he said he thinks of himself as a
conceptual artist and you know sometimes
he does sculpture and sometimes he does
installations and
when he does paintings he asks other
people to do the actual work but
that's not what matters it's his idea
you know he's the one in charge he is
he is a kind of uh executive producer's
role
like in cinema and so you know this is
of no significance whatsoever
but you know we presume when we look at
a painting that we're we know
the man we know the one man who did all
the work that may not be true
it may be a whole studio of people work
together to produce this painting
well if you think the brilliance of
napoleon
is proven by his legal reforms the code
i got news for you he's barely
responsible for two sentences of it
i mean basically i give napoleon no
credit at all
for the coach napoleon i mean probably
probably a little bit of credit
it's deserved for him but you know he he
really that's really not his work but
his name is on it
he presided over the finalization of
that set of legal reforms it started
long before he came to power it was a
very different set of people who were
really the authors
and the negotiators who created it i
rest my case but you know obviously it
is not easy to attribute
any accomplishment to jfk whatsoever
what is it you would have you would
attribute to jfk and say that he he uh
he did of his own brilliance or of his
own intelligence
um as opposed to being other people uh
surrounding him
all right mr reading here
all right so another great question sir
it's good guys i like doing these things
spontaneously
you could probably tell i could have
done this video just as one continuous
monologue
um somebody asks quote do you think iq
is inherited
because parents have learning
disabilities okay so i'm sorry i
slightly rephrased your question
okay this is precisely what the
right-wing
demagogues try to weaponize into a
political platform
right so some some disabilities
are hereditary not all right
so some distortions
in your iq statistics will show up as
being
hereditary now you guys probably know
certain impairments of vision are
hereditary for example certain things
that will impact your ability to learn
and achieve things in life are
hereditary
disabilities and others are not you know
others are for example caused by a
nutritional deficiency and
some are some disabilities are caused by
a car accident including mental
disabilities i knew someone who had her
head caved in in a
car accident had reconstructive surgery
but you know she qualified as mentally
disabled
forever after um so i just say you can
be mentally disabled for reasons that
are not
genetic and not hereditary right but
again something i warned about in my
earlier video is the extent to which
tests that exist for and are calibrated
for evaluating people at the low end of
the spectrum
are misrepresented in politics as if
they're meaningful
for the full spectrum now
i knew one guy who told me that his
mother
had been a a crack addict during
pregnancy i knew one very different guy
who told me that his
his father had been a heroin addict
right up to his
conception and birth but i think not his
mother um
you know the effects on the intellectual
development
of a child if the parents are drug
addicts
um especially the mother during
pregnancy but even if
even if not dream crazy what if the
mother becomes a drug addict
six months after she gives birth to the
kid well she's still a drug addict
in terms of the whole parenting and
nurturing role thereafter
um obviously any of us would expect that
a meaningful test of intelligence
you may not be but a meaningful
destination is going to show negative
effects from this right and again if
just talking it through in two sentences
you can immediately understand what that
is and understand that it's not an
argument
that supports scientific racism or
anything else
but it's an argument that immediately
draws our attention to incredibly
important
social problems that if we don't solve
you know
rapidly get worse and saddle us with a
huge population of people who've
grown up in deprived circumstances and
you know can barely
participate in our society and so on and
by the way it's a huge problem here in
canada i mean
so drug addiction is at epidemic levels
and we have kids who grew up
even if the kids do not become drug
addicts themselves they grow up in an
incredibly depressed incredibly deprived
state
because their parents are drug addicts
or alcoholics or both
you know and this is not a black
issue and it's not a white issue ever
heard of ireland i mean
there are plenty of white people in
ireland who are alcoholics and drug
addicts you can go to countries where
all these problems exist and they're not
divided on racial lines you know
um you ever been to south korea wow what
a culture of alcoholism south korea's
anyway sorry um oh somebody in the
comments says that is his girlfriend is
fetal occlusion
well and your girlfriend admits it
that's the more rare thing
fetal alcohol syndrome is at epidemic
levels in canada i remember an important
article
back during the peak of the hysteria
over hiv aids
i remember reading an article here in
canada that was saying look
when you really consider the numbers
honestly
canada doesn't have an aids problem we
have a fetal alcohol syndrome problem
you know alcoholic
alcohol drinking mothers during
pregnancy that's a real epidemic that's
going to
you know ruin the next generation and
just the number of people who have aids
and the number of babies being born with
agents
these are this is a really small problem
you know numerically so anyway
oh great comment from the audience
hashtag irish sobriety
anyway guys so look it's it's great
talking to you guys i think i've covered
a lot of the ground kind of
spontaneously in this way
um you know if you guys have more
questions
ask more questions because i i do enjoy
answering them if more of you guys could
hit the thumbs up button it'll help more
people discover the video i do think
my youtube channel is pretty thoroughly
shadow banned right now
we we get if you guys are members of
patreon i posted this screenshot
yesterday the day before yesterday oh
you know what that's actually on my blog
too so here you can see it if you're not
a patreon subscriber i just said look if
if this
isn't permissible what is if this is the
level of uh
censorship and the limitation on freedom
of speech you're gonna deal with on
youtube
you know what am i supposed to do here
guys but anyway yeah um
if you guys hit thumbs up it helps more
people discover the live stream
especially while
we're still going oh if someone joins
now
i don't think they'd be too confused
about what it is we're talking about
frankly i think i think you could jump
right in
here at the uh the 56 minute mark and
understand what it is i'm going on about
with no problem at all okay so what i've
been hinting at
having established um oh do you mind
elaborating on that cbc
picture you posted on the blog
uh you're gonna have to fill me out of
the details i'm not sure which one
you're which one you're talking about
um perfectly reasonable question all
right sorry back to the top here
okay yeah melissa has filled in the
blanks for us yeah well
that whole video itself so yeah it's
it's terrible but nevertheless contains
uh profound and disturbing wisdom so
there you go
the taxonomy of canadian democracy image
i'll provide the link for any of the
audience who wants to be in on the
inside joke there
okay guys so i've already talked about
the extent to which
a lot of the right-wing demagoguery
about iq statistics relies on
us suspending our disbelief and
pretending
that problems at the low end of the
spectrum are problems throughout the
whole
spectrum and i've formally studied
social science statistics but this will
be
immediately apparent to you if you don't
disaggregate
data what does this fancy word disagree
mean separating the data into
columns into separate segments whatever
we're going to use here
that it's it's going to be tremendously
misleading if you have
so look i just mentioned you could do
this with neighborhood rather than
ethnicity
right if instead of looking at the
contrast between black students
and white students getting into
universities obviously if you looked at
wealthy neighborhoods
versus poor neighborhoods you know you
could look at all the disadvantages poor
white people have
in contrast to poor black people and
whatever you could you can
disaggregate the data in other ways and
yes it may be that when you're looking
at
poor households and poor families you're
looking at more people who have some of
these disadvantages that put them into
the
the bottom end of the spectrum but
once you've removed this once you're
evaluating people who are in the middle
or people in the top
you're certainly not looking at any of
these considerations anymore you're not
looking at the question of
whether or not someone is for example
mentally capable of doing military
service
we're now asking questions about whether
you would make a good architect
or a great architect that is something
very very different to try to test for
to try to calibrate a test to say look
do you really have the potential
not not to sit at a desk and listen to a
lecture and take notes at all
right like that's that's a serious area
of scientific research a serious area of
public policy
look some people whether through mental
disability or lack of education
or disadvantaged circumstances or injury
or what have you
some people are not capable of attending
classes and
looking at what's on the board and
listening to the professor and taking
notes
and then later writing an essay so you
know okay that's one way to calibrate
the test
but you are telling me that you were
going to create a test that instead
is going to evaluate people in the
middle or people at the high end
to talk about what kind of intellectual
potential they have whether they would
be a good architect
or whether they would be a great
architect ah
so now we come back to the fundamental
question here um
of why okay let's let's repeat let's
repeat the original question that
started the video
right what would be a meaningful
test of intelligence right so we have
disaggregated this
there are meaningful tests at the low
end it really matters like whether or
not you have dyslexia whether you have
other mental disabilities
that again may disqualify you from doing
military service even they may
disqualify you from all kinds of jobs
man just qualified from college
ah but now you want to talk about a
military attack
pardon me you want to talk about a
meaningful test of intelligence
that will separate someone who will only
ever be a
mediocre architect from someone who has
the potential to be a great architect
now why do you want
to devise this test presumably
it's because you only have 40 seats
available
you can only admit 40 students into your
university of architecture and you want
only the students who really have
the potential to be great architects not
just good architects
ah interesting
now look is this does anyone in the
audience believe this is really
difficult does anyone believe
this this is kind of coming down to the
myth of of meritocracy
you know colleges want money they want
students who can pay
if you're terrible at it that's better
because you're not going to ask any
questions you're not going to cause any
problems with the professor they don't
want brilliant architects if you're a
brilliant architect don't even go to
don't even come to our school oh great
you're brilliant go go
go make your fortune go have a great the
the attitudes that actually exist in
these institutions
are not at all of trying to encourage or
recruit the people of the best officers
okay but if you were to devise now
let's try so if you're gonna devise a
meaningful test let's ask what that is
but can we all admit to ourselves if you
wanted to weed out if you wanted to
remove the people
who would only ever be a good architect
and not a great architect
does anyone believe the iq test would
establish this to
anyone does anyone believe that the type
of math puzzles and logic puzzles and
geometry puzzles in the iq test
is going to distinguish the difference
between someone not someone who
currently
is a good architect versus a great
architect but someone who has the
potential in
future to become a great architect and
all you guys know
right now if we round up the 20 most
successful
architects and again what makes a good
architect
what is we have long discussion forum
what is creativity
how do you maybe if i as a white
canadian
start imitating traditional japanese
pagodas
traditional japanese temple architecture
people will regard me as tremendously
creative
they might even think i'm a great
architect and someone from japan says
what this is like a second-rate rip-off
of our traditional architecture what are
you guys getting excited about
it's very believable i think things like
that i haven't argued about that oh oh
so the fact
that i'm successful therefore means i'm
creative and therefore means i'm
intelligent it doesn't
it does the fact that somebody got rich
on bitcoin doesn't mean they're
intelligent guys the fact that someone
got rich on the stock market you know
and it's not even necessarily luck right
you can get rich on the stock market
just because you got good advice and you
followed it
you know someone told you you would make
money if you bought this stock and you
believed them and listened to them and
bought the stock
it's all it takes to be successful in
the stock market right um
anyway okay so
um is it
possible to test someone's current
potential
to become a great heart attack is it
possible to evaluate the difference
between mediocre
good and great architects people who've
already become a couple let's say
they're all 55 years old
they're toward the end of their career
oh architects come with those 75 i guess
at age 55 after they've already had
decades of work in the field
if we gave them an iq test do you think
this measure of so-called intelligence
is going to distinguish if we gave them
the u.s military's intelligence test of
the canadian military's intelligence
or or oh great example what if we at age
we got these distinguished architects
and we forced them to write the s.a.t
test again
we forced them to write the university
entrance testing and they'd always say
they're going oh i don't remember
any of this stuff this crap i was forced
to learn in high school
that i've never used as an adult never
using her oh and now you're going to
evaluate my intelligence on this basis
this is terrible
i once sat down and i was given a
primary school
a grammar test you know for english
grammar
and it made me want to never have my kid
in a school in canada it was so
i was like wow this is the test used and
the con it was terrible
and the the answers were so poorly
phrased i didn't i didn't know the
answers it was so unclear and i'm fussy
targeting
it's like giving it's like which one of
these is the best example of irony
and like all five examples are terrible
it's like well
you think any of this is a good use of
irony like you know do you know the
media i know the meaning of the word
irony
it's like it's a grammar test i think
for grade six students or something
anyway just saying but you know if if
you in the audience were forced to go
and write a test for
school children or a test for college
you might not seem so intelligent
distinguished
ah but when we're talking about the
middle range and the upper
range what are meaningful tests of
intelligence
right and the simplest answer again and
again and again
is to make the test resemble the type
of competence you want to measure
and to admit to yourself that measures
of competence
will never be measures of intellectual
potential
they will only and always be measures
of your present capability created
through
past hard work and to some limited
extent
innate talent i suppose not that we can
ever
you know disentangle those two how much
of this is hard work wait
if you want to test how good
someone is at flying an airplane
what do you do do you give them an iq
test
would anyone here want to choose a pilot
or
trust a pilot or treat someone as a
reliable safe pilot and risk your life
oh yeah here's my iq test here's my
mensa test oh yeah
this question on the mensa test of like
if you take your shoe off turn it upside
down and backwards and then look at the
letter on it
which way is up on the letter yeah yeah
bro i practiced every morning i woke up
in the morning and did these geometry
puzzles i got this great score in my iq
test i got this great score of my
i met said that can you can you bro can
you fly a plane bro
really really what do we do what do we
do to test
that someone can be a pilot we put them
in a computer simulation it looks like a
metal box
on four crooked legs you know this box
and when you're in it it shifts around
to give you the feeling of an airplane
shifting
and we test them again and again and
again in a simulation
that resembles a real aircraft as much
as humanly possible the actual steering
wheel and the buttons
everything's the same the test
mimics the real challenge
we talked years ago on this channel
about a test that was trying to pin down
so-called critical thinking what is
critical thinking
how do you measure critical thinking
what do they do this is also related to
airplanes
coincidentally well they gave students a
set
of eight or 12 newspaper articles
about airplane safety and what to do
about
airplane crashes and each article was
kind of advancing a different
perspective
a different possible proposal to amend
what the american government was doing
about airplane safety and each of them
had different advantages and
disadvantages
it's like well we could probably reduce
the number of airplanes crashing by two
or three airplanes a year if we did this
however it would delay each aircraft
taking off by 20 minutes
and a 20 minute delay equals so many
million dollars per year
this kind of thing so you imagine it was
presenting a complex
unclear set of considerations and the
student was asked to sit down
read all these articles in whatever
order they wanted they weren't numbered
one designer saying
look at all the articles and then here's
a series of questions where you have to
make an
informed evaluation of what the governor
should do you have to write a kind of
set of policy recommendations
balancing different contradictory
information i think also some of the
articles contradict each other
like some articles said the other
article is lying kind of thing oh well
the other article says
is this intelligence you know is is this
critical thinking is this
what are you measuring here now i think
probably based on that description
all of you people could say oh well this
is a meaningful test
of something you know coming back to the
example of that
taxi driver you know the guy who drives
the taxi and has these political penis
maybe he would not do well on that test
you know what i mean like maybe he's not
the kind of guy who can sit down and
give you a balanced
nuanced analytical view a bunch of
complex
you know overlapping mutually
contradictory information
each piece of information has advantages
and disadvantages it's not like oh
there's one
there's one simple solution to this
problem and you have to
say what it is in a you know there are
four options a b c
d which one is the correct answer well
there is no correct answer
the question is how correctly can you
argue your point of view and support it
given complex contradictory
uncertain information ah
so now we're getting into meaningful
tests of intelligence they have to be
meaningful
relative to some goal relative to some
outcome relative to some form
of competence right and for that same
reason that we have to recognize the gap
between present competence and
intellectual potential
or what we think of as this static
entity called intelligence yes someone
in the someone in the audience is using
the term general intelligence
that's what that's what the proponents
of the iq test like to use and pretend
that there's this innate characteristic
that's measurable intelligence now again
general intelligence at the low end when
we're calibrating for mentally disabled
people to figure out how disabled they
are
whether or not they can speak in court
of course that matters of course it does
okay if i take
10 people from the audience right now
and i have you write a series of tests
it doesn't really matter if we do the iq
tests
some we do some set of tests to say okay
we're going to do this intelligence test
guys and then i'm going to decide who
among you has the potential to be a
great architect
all right so we got 10 people at the
audience and you don't have time to
prepare
to write the test right you always say
okay guess what guys we got winners and
losers
you you and you you three people you got
the highest scores
you're gonna be great architects we're
gonna take you we're gonna put you into
this
architecture program okay so seven
people fail the test and three people
pass oh to the seven people who failed
right there are different ways you can
respond to this
right but we all know one of them is
i'll show you
i'll show you who's going to be a great
argument i'm gonna work
10 times as hard and think about this if
you came to that moment in your life
where you write this intelligence test
and you fail and someone tells you
you're never going to be a great
architect
do you think the rational thing to do is
for you to double down
and study twice as hard for that
intelligence test
knowing that the intelligence test has
absolutely nothing to do with the type
of confidence or the type of creativity
necessary to be a great architect or the
type of experience there's also just
hands-on workplace experience
like if you say if you say okay i've got
one year now i've got a gap year
between high school and college and i
want to go and be a great architect
do you think you should take that one
year to travel the world
and visit important buildings and learn
about architecture
or do you think you should spend that
one year practicing every day for the
sat test and the iq test
for these kinds of standardized tests
who do you think is going to be
a better architect and so let's just say
it's it's not just tourism
you guys might not have seen this i've
seen this when i've when i've traveled i
go to very strange places
but you know like i've sometimes been to
buddhist temples or even modern
architecture and there's a guy there
who's like he's like a tourist but he's
sitting there with a professional
drawing board doing the elevation plan
he's really studying the architecture
he's really studying
he's taking sketches and taking notes on
how the different parts of the building
like if you're really interested in the
structural aspects of architecture you
can go there you can see that you can
get motivated get inspired you can learn
about these different things
and then you know when you're in the
architecture of the university you can
say the professor like you listen to the
birthday
well you know that's interesting but
when i was in milan what i noticed was
this
you know like you actually have some
experience that's relevant to
architecture right
who who is going to be the better
architect the person who who studies for
one year
drilling doing the questions again again
to get a great sat test to get a really
high test on the iq test
maybe we can throw in the mensa test
they have a really high score in the
met's test or someone
someone who's out learning about
architecture we could throw in also what
about someone who spends a year
working in construction let's say his
uncle has a
you know construction company he's
actually getting hands-on experience
with structural steel with you know how
the
actual process of building of building
something works
and then he's going to be able to apply
that knowledge maybe that guy maybe it's
not one year maybe it's 10 years maybe
he spent 10 years working construction
and he maybe this particular guy has
been 10 years in a construction state
maybe he's not real good at writing iq
tests maybe he's not real good at
writing the stds maybe he doesn't have a
lot of patience for it
because he has real life experience
hands-on experience with what
architecture really means and then you
sit him down and say okay well we want
you to do this bunch of geometric
puzzles
we want you to answer a bunch of logic
questions and
completely meaningless you know
questions that supposedly test your
intelligence and he's sitting there his
pistol
man i don't even want to spend five
minutes dealing with this because he he
feels confident he knows what
architecture is he knows what the job is
he's not going to let this that's good
people can just have that attitude and
do badly on the test right
okay but if we i'm i'm saying this to
reach out to you in the audience and say
if you wrote this test you might feel
one of these ways
and maybe not maybe out of the seven
people who failed
one of them just believes in the test
they just say well
you know i've heard jordan peterson talk
about iq tests i've heard jordan peters
talk about the s.a.t test
you know and this this really judges me
and that's it
you know this piece of paper has
established that i don't have what it
takes to be a great architect
so i'm out and they would just
internalize that self-doubt and
self-hatred
you know and they would just consider
themselves permanently inferior
and permanently disadvantaged incapable
of getting over the hump
right but some of you
some of those people out of the 10
people some of you would respond to this
and say damn it i'm going to be a better
architect than those three losers
who won the test they know how to write
this test but i know how to design a
building i know how to put
i know how to make a window look
beautiful whatever it is i know how to
assemble
you know uh structural steel into
something that that people really want
to live in and people really want to buy
i'm going to make my mark in the world
of architecture and maybe that person
goes to a second-rate college and maybe
they go to a third-rate college instead
of going to an ex more expensive college
or instead of having a you know and
maybe they succeed anyway
maybe their brilliance their acumen
their hard work
pays off right
and if it doesn't you know do you really
think the people who try and fail
do you think any of them have to say
that they just weren't smart enough
in any field of endeavor how many people
try to make it in architecture and fail
or the outcomes are mediocre and they
just say you know what the problem was
i just didn't have what it took to do
these
math puzzles i didn't have what it took
to score so high
you know uh in these in these on paper
tests
okay guys that's the conclusion in my
video for me i mean um
i i if you guys have any more any more
questions i'm happy to take them and
then we can we can wrap it up
um ghizaru writes in saying that
some white people in his area weaponize
ideas of iq against native americans
specifically as a reason that we
shouldn't care about them politically i
wonder if you've noticed this elsewhere
so yes gizarro
[Music]
that is sort of the ultimate taboo in
canadian politics i would say
i don't know how things are in in alaska
by contrast or different parts of the
united states
where the same issues could could exist
so i'll say something about
first nations are indigenous people and
then i'll contrast this to
a totally different situation the other
side of the world that's nevertheless
roman
so i'm going to give you one specific
example but this happened throughout the
canadian administration of
first nations there was a reservation in
saskatchewan
where the canadian government separated
the native people living on that
reservation
into the people they considered
genetically superior and the people they
considered
genetically inferior and they gave them
separate land
and as a social experiment tried to
prove that within
the native population there was this
kind of eugenic
difference in uh racial superiority
and so to my knowledge this wasn't a
special area of study for me but as you
can understand it's a highly politically
contentious and interesting area for
researchers and historians today um
they pretended that these people were
selected
on the basis of objective tests like iq
tests for their intelligence
but to a large extent these so-called
superior
people were selected because they more
resembled white europeans
that it was primarily a racist criterion
of who was who was superior and who was
inferior
and it had terrible consequences
for those native people themselves and
for their descendants
who are still alive today so there was
one specific experiment like that in
saskatchewan that i knew
a fair bit about um how many experiments
of that kind were there throughout the
british empire
the idea and you know we had sorry
without getting into the whole history
of our residential school system but yes
throughout the british empire the idea
that you could use iq
tests to decide you know policy for
conquered peoples
um this has it's nothing really that has
a long history
it's just that that history it's not
that many hundreds of years it's not
we're talking about the last 100 years
maybe 150 years or something
it doesn't go back that far but that's
the the shadow of that still hangs over
uh politics today and
you know again sorry something i didn't
talk about this video it could be a
whole separate video
one of the reasons the most important
reasons why iq does not equal
intelligence
is just that your motivation and your
attitude the time you write the test
it reflects so much in the score the
same person can write the iq test
three months apart and get totally
different scores and any of you can
relate to that
um you know if you of so sorry a great
example
i won't digress into this long when you
have people who
are applying to enter the diplomatic
service in almost any country you can
united states england
you get people who are highly
professional highly trained highly
educated highly motivated
and they're applying for a job that they
imagine at least will be very high
paying
and you get people who are incredibly
focused so for example you have a test
for diplomats for how well they speak
chinese
like this is here in canada how well do
you speak chinese or how well do you
speak
italian or something and you have these
kind of superhuman performances
these people seem to learn languages in
three months
this is an illusion but you can imagine
these people are really motivated in
someone
and uh some you know some tests and some
circumstances you have people who are
extremely highly motivated to write an
iq test consumers but you have people
who are demoralized
and really literally oppressed being
forced to write intelligence tests
you know for example in the history of
our first nations and so on people who
resent
being there people say why am i being
forced to take this test and where there
is no reward
i mean you know i just say there are
factors like that too to be considered
this is
for all discussion of intelligence tests
and aptitude tests
and so on and it's again i find it
difficult
to imagine that people are being
sincerely incompetent
in ignoring those factors you know how
different the
the issue of motivation and again the
same person can write the same test
a few months apart and double their
score and quadruple
their score because and they'll say why
well they was like oh well the first
time i didn't care
and then the second i went i studied and
i prepared and i took it seriously and
you know
it's not so mysterious but you know if
you think this is measuring an innate
trait and innate ability
this is really ridiculous um okay sorry
so i'll just
reset the question so gizuru is asking
about uh or
or perhaps so many ways to pronounce
your name
uh this member of the audience is asking
about the
weaponization of iq tests against native
americans
i used to live in cambodia okay
um cambodians
get much lower scores on intelligence
tests than people from thailand
next door people from vietnam on the
other side
now the actual tests that were being
used at that time
were not iq tests they were
math and language aptitude tests i think
honestly they're based ultimately on a
japanese standard not a european
standard
but there were some kind of standardized
school tests that were given to some
people to measure how
how awful the education system was in
cambodia and
um
how stupid and ignorant would you have
to be to imagine
that you're looking at a genetic
difference between
cambodians and vietnamese people and
between cambodians and thai people
when you're looking at the fact that
cambodians at that time
were performing much worse on these
intelligence tests
you know it's again like if you actually
reify this as if this is a measure of
genetics in these people um again
partly again there's this issue of
measuring the low end measuring the
middle and then measuring the high end
and what our assumptions are
built into the high end you know what
does creativity mean what does it mean
to be a great architect what does it
mean to be a successful startup
stockbroker
and to what extent is being a successful
stockbroker or a successful musician
like bob dylan
rely on factors that have nothing to do
with your intelligence
especially not hereditary intelligence
you know this is
all these all these uh problems but you
know
in case you hadn't heard you know
cambodia
was a much more war-torn and poverty
poverty-stricken nation than thailand
and it was even much more war-torn and
poverty-stricken than vietnam
long story short the war ended in
vietnam earlier that it ended in
cambodia
vietnam and a number of other advantages
in terms of education and just
literacy and what have you you know
anyone
who had visited these countries and just
read a tourist guidebook
about the history of these three
countries how could anyone in their
right mind
think that intelligence tests whether
it's the iq test or
you know a school app dude oh cool thing
this is reflecting a genetic difference
between
cambodians these other people now you
know
beyond that i mean if you were
talking about a real genetic difference
between people
what if you had two populations one
population of whom had a higher rate of
down syndrome
than the other and then that's what's
showing up in these tests is the number
of people at the bottom end are skewing
the testosterone that way i mean
hypothetically you could have that sort
of thing
some some you know genetic disorders i
remember i used to live in scotland
people were talking all the time about
the genetic disorders that the scottish
people had more than anyone else on
earth yeah i just mentioned there were a
bunch of them
it's just the way dna works if you're
born scottish there are a bunch of bunch
of problems you have to watch out for
um that you may have inherited and they
all knew it you know and they talked
about it
you know you you could have
hypothetically at least a population of
people
with a higher rate of down syndrome
babies and then those babies born with
down syndrome
score lower on iq tests or standardized
aptitude tests or school tests and then
that affects your
your average score would you really make
a racist argument about
genetic inferiority on this basis
that what you do with this data what you
make out of this you know that that's
the part that's so
it's pseudoscientific and it's also just
you know
fundamentally mean-spirited so you know
again i won't dig question this much
further but
so with with native americans obviously
you're looking at
these differences in terms of poverty
and so on and so forth but of course the
other one is nutrition
i used to live in laos i used to do
humanitarian work and research in laos
laos is just north of cambodia you got a
nerd and you know
there were people who were mentally and
physically disabled for life
because of lack of vitamin a you know
they've
avoided the vitamin a and it they have
impaired vision for the rest of their
lives i think it is
and there were people who were disabled
for the rest of their lives
by an amazing array of of nutritional
deficiencies
that you just couldn't believe existed
in the 21st century and as i lived there
more and i understood the culture
because it wasn't it wasn't absolute
scarcity guys it wasn't
um i started to understand how it was
possible for people to have these
nutritional deficiencies that that
impaired their intellectual development
so there are mangoes everywhere and you
have people eating a 100
meat diet you know i'm not i'm not
joking i wish i was
you know you have a culture that doesn't
value eating vegetables and fruit
even though they're they're like poor
people can afford deep mangoes in that
climate you know
us they may even resent it i remember
people saying that to me the certain
kinds of tropical fruit going they're
like oh
i was forced to eat this during my
childhood because it's cheap
and now i never eat that stuff anymore
it's like
that's how you feel about fruit
measurement people really seriously
where the only food they value
is eating buffalo meat and especially
eating raw buffalo meat and this is a
tropical country with no refrigeration
this kind of mind-blowingly unhealthy
diet
you know and so again apart from i mean
it's it's not
absolute poverty it's the combination of
poverty
and ignorance and cultural values and
lack of knowledge and nutrition
but you know they're they're so there
are nutritional differences
oh sorry i mean the ultimate one is of
course being iodine deficient you get
mental impairment from lack of iodine
and laos was one of the countries that
struggled with that mongolia struggled
with that
um depending on what's in the diet
iodine deficiency might or might not be
an example
so look this is this is the tragedy of
this
in situations where there really is a
sort of quote-on-quote
genetic basis for inequalities in iq
where it's not as obvious as the
difference between thailand and cambodia
in the 20th century which has knocked on
effects in the 21st century obviously
like it's not it's not as obvious the
difference of whether or not a school
exists whether or not books is i'm sorry
but i've lived in these conditions
there i met people i've told the story
before i know i met a woman she didn't
have a school she was literally educated
in a cave
there was no school they had one
chalkboard
she was educated in a cave by members of
the communist party while the americans
were dropping bombs outside
literally those were her conditions
growing up now i made a resting moment
too
she eventually got a university degree
in berlin uh under communism
that was east berlin back when there was
separate east berlin and west point
anyway um fascinating character but you
know
obviously these conditions are going to
have knock-on effects on uh on iq scores
or
university attitudes course what have
you and if you actually lived there and
worked with them and cared about them
and cared for them
you would have some nuanced
understanding of what the factors are
that with any particular group of native
americans
is you know weighing down on their
accomplishments academically shall we
say or in terms of how they get ahead in
informal education and sorry in canada
of course there's also just the quality
of the schools themselves which i could
now digress that they're giving a
lecture about
uh but yeah obviously the quality of the
school you have access to so
sorry long long answer to a long
question
but look
let's turn it around let's argue against
my position here
are thai people racist against cambodian
people
yes they are do thai people commonly
commonly believe that cambodian people
are genetically inferior
yes they do do thai people routinely say
that cambodians
are genetically incapable of higher
levels of knowledge yes they do
china versus mongolia do chinese people
commonly believe that mongolians are
genetically inferior or
inferior in terms of iq if you're in
german yes
one of the most widespread forms of
racism that exists in china
is the belief that mongolian people are
mentally inferior
to chinese people genetically so to
argue against myself
the point is that it is very common in
the mass of humanity
to make exactly these kinds of of
racist and racializing uh judgments so i
suppose this is part of the uh
part of the tragedy of life on planet
earth in the uh
in the 21st century so a couple other
interesting questions
obviously i'm assuming i'm going to wrap
it up um
someone asked have you seen sean's video
on the bell curve yes as i recall that
was
years ago but yes i have and do you
follow
nassim taleb i did buy
and read naseem tellab's book
eight years ago approximately
so that is an interesting factoid i
listened to one of his lectures
delivered to the london school of
economics and i i read his book
so deep cuts interrupt interesting that
you asked that
um but that is that is one of the few
contemporary authors i
i have indeed read
so i'm just reading through your
questions guys
great question what was the last animal
you ate except
really would have to search my memory
for that
you know what i'm thinking i actually i
think i can remember actually i think i
can
um anyway uh uh uh
sorry there was another great question
in here oh so
totally different topic but a great one
to speak on briefly plant-based power
would ask why did we lose the war in
vietnam hey what do you mean we
i mean we why did we lose the war in
vietnam
uh he says we had the technology uh or
was that war just to make money
so um gee is there any book i can
recommend on this i don't think so
sorry ever so often people ask me before
i can recommendations
yeah but i've already mentioned it it's
not on this it's not stuff
well you know what babe it kind of is
you know what you're right i guess
i guess this is the book to recommend
okay guys you're gonna see the camera
move because this book is underneath the
camera here
so yeah totally off topic but maybe a
nice nice little degree i should end it
so this is a book on the history of the
milai massacre that i myself like to
mispronounce sometime
so there you go um history of the me
line massacre
and the reality is with this event being
of unique and tremendous historical
significance but this was not the only
uh such event the united states
got demoralized and gave up um
it is true that the actual organization
of the army
was inept it is true that
in many important ways the americans
were both politically incompetent
and tactically incompetent that is true
however fundamentally the vietnam war
stopped
when americans stopped believing in it
they lost
faith in the project of the vietnam war
and i think people
could ask quite righteously at many a
point during the vietnam war
what the hell are we fighting for what
was the purpose of this war and
obviously there was a failure on the
part of political leaders to actually
create a meaningful sense of what the
purpose and objective of the war was and
that it could be accomplished
so on and so forth but a series of
scandals and i would say again the
single most important
being the uh discovery of the melane
massacre not when the massacre happened
when it came to be discussed uh by
american journalists and so on became
common knowledge
uh led to americans losing faith in the
war project
and then demanding an immediate end of
the war so that's also
an aspect of democracy and um
you know uh
america is partly a democracy
and it's in very large part not a
democracy it's a hybrid
it's a mixed system it's a mixed society
but one of the rare examples of
democracy at work is that the american
people
demanded a sudden immediate end to the
vietnam war
and eventually they got it so that was
an example of uh democracy in the
in their in their house of commons shall
we say overcoming
uh what other parts of society silly
mannelly asks a very telling
question he says if you used to live in
scotland
what is the national beverage apart from
beer
question mark hint it's orange
so i know the answer to this but i would
assume melissa for example does not
so sillyman here is your
i answer i think they have an love mess
aaron
so yes i really did live in scotland and
i could not believe how absolutely
horrible
um the taste of iron brew is so that is
a drink that is only
sold in scotland and many people told me
that if you didn't grow up drinking it
you would always hate the taste
a uh an assumption
i can only agree with so free to ask may
have been a nice question to
to close on is so one's intelligence
can only be measured by your choices so
no i don't i don't believe that at all
freedom i wouldn't agree with that at
all
so listen dude you have a response to
that bib so you i
yeah so i mean yeah i mean you can see
what she's getting at
i'm i'm not actually not that
pessimistic so go ahead what would you
say
yeah so i mean so so to relate it i mean
so if i agreed with frida here we might
say like for example
that what i was saying about napoleon is
you know looking at his choices in life
looking at you afghanistan you look at
the choices they've made
and then you judge the person to be
intelligent enough on the basis of the
stress i don't i don't think that's true
look even at
at christianity in people's lives that
people believe in a religion for so many
years and so on you know and
to some extent those choices are made
for you or yeah
yeah no i'm you know i wouldn't say that
but also
the point is that intelligence can only
be measured by your choices that's what
she's just
i don't feel that way at all i think we
can measure intelligence i think with
all of the caveats that i've stated in
this video
and all the warnings against the way in
which
data about intelligence is misused no
you you absolutely can
um you know the warnings are
considerable
however you know um you
you know let's say this too i mean most
of these fields of endeavor are very
fundamentally corrupt
um if you really did develop
yeah so freida i think we understood
your point so she was just she was just
reiterating you know like making bad
choices in life so
whether you choose to become a cocaine
addict whether you choose to cheat on
your wife with a stripper
and again we're assuming you don't
sympathize with that i think there are a
lot of people
who would say well you know strippers
are people too you know maybe this guy
had a really wonderful love affair with
a stripper maybe this stripper
understood him in ways his wife never
did like maybe that was the most
meaningful relationship of his life was
you know why have these bad assumptions
he cheated on his wife with a stripper
and he got a cocaine habit but
you know maybe that's the best thing he
ever did in his life and not the worst
right like we have a lot of judgmental
assumptions you know built uh
built into this um no so i mean you know
i'm joking around but again i'm really
serious like you know
oh sorry let's give a great example
melissa just made a video
maybe so you guys have seen it maybe
maybe you haven't but you know talking
about her decision to not go to medical
school
now someone could just judge that as
wrong and bad and the sign of limited
intelligence they say oh well
obviously there's that that was dumb or
something
you know you're that you're just a dumb
person because you didn't become a
medical doctor
maybe maybe that was the right decision
for her like for a lot of people
someone else who was mentioned in this
video jaclyn glenn jacqueline glenn
started on youtube
uh as a medical school student she was
in med school
in training to become a doctor and she
dropped out now some people would say
that was the wrong decision or that even
proves that she's stupid as if there's
this inherent thing
well you know she also had a background
in theater she also wanted to be a
comedian she had other interests in life
and other talents in life
and you know maybe she's too stupid to
be a doctor
like we're talking about jacqueline
glenn here no offense you know knowing
her as well as we all do now
maybe it would have been really awful
for her to keep on struggling in medical
school maybe she would have been a
terribly inept and terrible daughter
maybe that would have been a really bad
password in other words too
so i mean you know we can go on and on
about this but looking at these
choices people make in life as if
there's a
very simple self-evident difference
between
good and bad smart and stupid oh look
so let's turn why did i become a scholar
of buddhism
and why did i quit is it smart or stupid
so right now i have the option guys you
can vote on this
should i go back to school and get a phd
in buddhist philosophy
phd in buddhist i can i still got it
i still got the talent believe me i've
still got what it takes gonna beat you
but
you know is that a good or a bad
decision is that a smart or a dumb
decision
if i go back and get a pg in buddhism
maybe that's the stupidest decision i
could ever make in my life
and other people you know especially
there are people who write to me who've
read my scholarship of buddhism from
that period in my life and they say look
this was really brilliant you're really
wasting your own uh you know uh
wasting your own potential in life you
know uh
there are people who think it's stupid
that i ever stopped being a scholar of
buddhism that the most intelligent the
most
positive thing i could do um would be go
back to school and
and get get a phd related buddhism or
buddhist philosophy and and
spend my life scholarships so no and we
freed up i'm taking your question
seriously both ways you know it's it's
not easy
and look i mean you know
i've got to tell you i don't believe i
don't believe all these things are
subjective
i do think you can really look at adolf
hitler
and judge that he was stupid in his life
i do think you can look at
napoleon and judge that he was stupid
and i do think that some
decisions are so morally wrong
or so tactically wrong that it's not
debatable you know
not all these things are subjective
available but i'm still
really signing this this series of
warnings
about the extent to which that
subjective issue where we're just
presuming
the amount that this person has in
common with me the amount they agree
with my politics
it's to that extent that i'm judging
them to be in the right and to be
intelligent
and smart and and you know and and
superior to other people
which is ultimately what we're what
we're talking about here people look
sorry the other huge factor here though
is just money
okay i mean so if you could
evaluate who is a good architect and who
is not
now that's not too hard to imagine
you have a specialized test it's not the
iq test
and you have to give them a bunch of
problems and okay calculate the
load-bearing wall
and okay here's a here's a blueprint
where are you going to put the
electrical wiring you could
let's say it's a five-hour exam yeah
like the uh
like that finance exam forgetting yeah
like the cfa exam for finance
you could have a really in-depth
thorough exam that really is calibrated
to test the upper limits of
architectural ability objectively like
in an objectively verifiable way and
nobody else is allowed in the room you
sit there and there are security cameras
and nobody can help you and nobody can
talk to you and there's no cheating
and this is really testing your mastery
of architecture at a high level
why doesn't that exist why doesn't every
country in the world
have why isn't it on tv every year like
the olympics
can you imagine a parallel universe a
different culture
where every year the competition for who
is the most brilliant architect
is a popular tv show it could be you
know why not
you know why who wants to watch football
this is ridiculous who wants
who wants to watch baseball let's watch
people compete over their ideas
of what is great architecture and
improve their their confidence and
mastery of this art form that affects
all of our lives why not
so i'm just saying despite all the
warnings or you know coming together
with with all these warnings about
what's
what these tests do and don't prove and
so on you know
no i i i do think you could test
you know ability as an architect and you
know again was just the point that
this is not your innate or inherent
intelligence
it's what you've accomplished up till
this moment you know which will
partly reflect your past intelligence
zone and so forth right um but
nobody wants to right nobody wants to
because all that anyone is interested in
is money
right what if the most famous uh
architect in the world the most
successful architecture like frank gehry
so i'm getting into getting into the six
degrees of separation
um frank gehry is a very famous
architect okay
what if we can prove that frank gehry is
an idiot
this is a his buildings are worth
millions of dollars his contract is an
arctic worth
millions and millions of dollars
everyone wants to build up the mystique
and the illusion that he's a genius
so frank again i i know people who know
people all right he has this trick he
does to make him look like a genius
where he signs his name with two pens
simultaneously he has a red pen and a
blue
pen he brings his hand in both hands
simultaneously
he signs his his his name and this
amazing
swirl of activity what dexterity
what acumen what brilliance and of
course people who've never tried it
think
wow this guy's a genius it's true he's
the greatest architect of the century or
something
you know if you sat down and practiced
doing that every day at 6am for a month
you could sign your name with two hands
also it's just completely
you know what i mean oh we have to
create this mystique we have to prac we
have to publish
books saying that he's a genius i
remember there was a book
this is a credit to frank gehry and
most of the book was photographs of his
architecture with quotations from people
saying he was a genius
but he actually included some quotations
of people saying he was an idiot
as i remember there's a quotation it was
just from another architect
who said you know the thing i appreciate
about the thing i appreciate about frank
is that he can create these insane
spaces that are
really unexpected you know when you walk
into the room it's not what you're
expecting the room to look like
but aside from that i think his whole
philosophy is
is i mean the guys are cranking
this just
and they included that in the books you
know it's great too but you know note
there's an industry
to make the university's degree in
architecture seem like it's worth a
million dollars there's an industry to
make
the building look like it's worth a
million dollars or the contract with the
arctic
absolutely nobody is interested in an iq
test
if it proves that this great architect
is an idiot absolutely nobody's
interested in a test
of architectural ability architectural
intelligence architectural
acumen you know because we could test
that
but nobody's interested in it if it
proves that frank gehry
is not a very good architect you know
who knows who knows what the impacts
would be you know what if it proves that
the most
expensive college is not producing the
best architects if there's a cheaper
smaller state college that actually
produces people who do better on this
test now we got a problem
oh but this is the great school of
architecture at this expense of college
you have to respect us no we don't
now we have an objective measure of
who's learning how to be a good
architect
and who's not so yeah with all these
caveats um
having been having been stated i do
think
there are meaningful tests of
intelligence they can be meaningful at
the low end
they can be meaningful at the middle
range and they can be meaningful at the
high end
also but you know we have to question
seriously the motivations of the people
who are designing these tests the
motivations of the people
writing them and we just have to have a
sincere sense
of trying to help others of trying to
make the world a better place and
engaging in this kind of research
you know absolutely you could do
detailed intelligence tests in cambodia
to find out what the problems in the
education system are
and where they are and how they're
distributed and to identify the problems
even ethnic minorities within cambodia
have because by the way
there are multiple ethnic groups in
multiple languages than cambodia it's
not all one ethnic group
absolutely and some of that stuff might
even kind of sound racist if you talked
about it in an insensitive way
but you could get out and you could do
intelligence testing that would turn up
problems
you could do intelligence testing that
would turn up where the clusters of drug
addiction are you know like oh well look
it's turning up here we have a lot of
parents are doing a lousy job raising
their kids because in this particular
area there's chronic drug addiction
like if you were doing it in a sensitive
compassionate
helpful way you know yeah you could you
could you could measure
intelligence in a way that's really
intended to help people and that's
really intended to
improve society i have never once heard
of a university
doing intelligence tests to figure out
which students need help
what if we do an intelligence test like
for learning chinese
look and guys maybe this is where i
don't i don't really think i'm that
gifted at learning chinese i don't
but all kinds of professors say oh wow
then i'm amazingly gifted at learning
languages i don't believe it i don't
separate topic i don't believe it but
other people perceive me
as if i'm incredibly gifted learning
languages well what if you test the
intelligence of the students we're all
paying the same amount of money
like i'm so gifted well i'm paying five
thousand dollars to take this chinese
course
all these idiots are paying five
thousand dollars also well if you test
their intelligence
because you're actually trying to help
them you could test them and figure oh
look
this guy over here he can learn the new
vocabulary in just one week
but we got these other students and they
need a month to learn it
well then what can we do to help them
never once in my life
i've never heard of intelligence testing
i've never heard of aptitude testing
that's intended to help people you know
it shows how
how sad and sick the whole province of
pseudoscience is
you know so yeah of course of course we
could test attitude
of course we could uh we could test
ability and of course
we could make the world a better place
through well-intentioned
sincere social science research that's
ultimately linked to
to political changes in policy thank you
guys very much for joining me tonight